General Comments:

I enjoyed reading your paper and I appreciate the topic you are addressing.  My main concern with your current paper is mostly an inbreeding estimation paper and not an economics paper.  As such, it seems it was targeted to the wrong journal.  That said, you appear to have developed some expertise in the area, so perhaps more economic work in what is an unfilled area in economics will come from future work.


Specific Comments:

1.	Does figure 2 have a source?  Also, what are units on inbreeding rate and how is it calculated? You use this inbreeding term quite a bit and it needs more explanation and definition.  Same for TPI on units and how calc in fig 2, though not as important for your paper as inbreeding rate. 

 

2.	Page 6.  Your back of the envelope cost of inbreeding that you hang your hat on and note in the abstract of your paper is at much at $6.7 billion. What is this cost? You mention Holstein USA but I do not see this reference in your reference list. When I review the publication at:  https://www.holsteinusa.com/pdf/Interpreting_and_Utilizing_Haplotype_Information_1218.pdf (which is in your references), I see no mention of the cost you calculate, but rather information about specific DNA sequences that are of concern. Then further, you state that the added milk productivity resulted in a net gain that exceeded this $6.7 billion cost. So, net, genetic testing to date has been a huge benefit to the dairy industry if I am interpreting your claims correctly. So, why are you anchoring on this “cost” measure of $6.7 billion.


3.	How much does genetic testing cost? Seems we need to know that to also assess net value.


4.	Your premise that inbreeding is a problem because it “may have hidden costs” and not that it has been demonstrated to be an economic problem. That is, you rely on conjecture that inbreeding will result in major disease or other genetic concerns that lead I guess to important economic consequences because some traits are being ignored or are not exhibited sufficiently due to inbreeding. While this may be true from a genetics perspective, it seems like conjecture on your part at this point and has no economic assessment in your paper. The paper by Littledon (2024) https://www.rroij.com/open-access/the-role-of-genomics-in-enhancing-dairy-cattle-productivity-and-health.pdf   indicates genomics testing is enabling selecting for milk yield, feed efficiency, and detection of inherited deficiencies and mutations – essentially a more productive and healthy dairy herd. So, has inbreeding become problematic or do we know when it is a problem? What is the rate of inbreeding at which it is a problem? Are we at a critical level economically yet or are we a long ways away?


5.	Dairy producers are in business for the long run, so why would they act irrationally and select sires for only short-run gains and ignore disease resistance? Do you have any evidence that they actually do this? That is, breeders must provide genetics demanded by producers for long run decisions. In the Bt corn case you discuss it was the seed companies that required refuge being planted so they could ensure the technology would be reliable in accomplishing what it claimed for the long run. This was not a federal government mandate. So, why would the same not occur in dairy genetics? You imply federal intervention is warranted because of an externality but you have not demonstrated such an externality exists or its magnitude.   


6.	Do dairy producers not also conduct genetic tests increasingly on young heifers for deciding which ones to retain? If so, wouldn’t they also match that genetic info with sires for better complementarity of overall traits?  

 

7.	Figure 4. Why has the number of bulls in the market gone up so rapidly from 2010 to 2015?  How does this mesh with your inbreeding measures? Are many of these bulls inter-related closely with each other?  At surface, it would seem more bulls would imply more genetic diversity in the market, but perhaps not?  Might deserve some explanation.


8.	 Page 14 you state “Moreover, bulls that are not genomically tested are more likely to have better quality traits and be more widely used.”  Why would bulls that are not tested be more likely to have better quality traits?


9.	Page 16, Figure 5 appears in the text, not the Appendix as stated here.


